e the other members of the family aware that Gregor,
against their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. Gregor,
Gregor, he called, whats wrong? And after a short while he called
again with a warning deepness in his voice: Gregor! Gregor! At the
other side door his sister came plaintively: Gregor? Arent you well?
Do you need anything? Gregor answered to both sides: Im ready, now,
making an effort to remove all the strangeness from his voice by
enunciating very carefully and putting long pauses between each,
individual word. His father went back to his breakfast, but his sister
whispered: Gregor, open the door, I beg of you. Gregor, however, had
no thought of opening the door, and instead congratulated himself for
his cautious habit, acquired from his travelling, of locking all doors
at night even when he was at home.

The first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being
disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to have his breakfast. Only
then would he consider what to do next, as he was well aware that he
would not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by lying in
bed. part, and could not
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; it
went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he carelessly
shoved himself forwards with all the force he could gather, he chose
the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower bedpost, and learned
from the burning pain he felt that the lower part of his body might
well, at present, be the most sensitive.

So then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed first,
carefully turning his head to the side. This he managed quite easily,
and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of his body eventually
followed slowly in the direction of the head. But when he had at last
got his head out of the bed and into the fresh air it occurred to him
that if he let himself fall it would be a miracle if his head were not
injured, so he became afraid to carry on pushing himself forward the
same way. And he could not knock himself out now at any price; better
to stay in bed than lose consciousness.

It took just as much effort to get back to where he had been earlier,
but when he lay there sighing, and was once more watching his legs as
they struggled against each other even harder than before, entire length of his body out of the bed all
at the same time. If he succeeded in falling out of bed in this way and
kept his head raised as he did so he could probably avoid injuring it.
His back seemed to be quite hard, and probably nothing would happen to
it falling onto the carpet. His main concern was for the loud noise he
was bound to make, and which even through all the doors would probably
raise concern if not alarm. But it was something that had to be risked.

When Gregor was already sticking half way out of the bedthe new method
was more of a game than an effort, all he had to do was rock back and
forthit occurred to him how simple everything would be if somebody
came to help him. Two strong peoplehe had his father and the maid in
mindwould have been more than enough; they would only have to push
their arms under the dome of his back, peel him away from the bed, bend
down with the load and then be patient and careful as he swang over
onto the floor, where, hopefully, the little legs would find a use.
Should he really call for help though, even apart from the fact that
all the doors were locked? Despite all the difficulty he was in, he
could not suppress a smile at this thought already moved so far across that it would have
been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard. The time
was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final decision very
soon. Then there was a ring at the door of the flat. Thatll be
someone from work, he said to himself, and froze very still, although
his little legs only became all the more lively as they danced around.
For a moment everything remained quiet. Theyre not opening the door,
Gregor said to himself, caught in some nonsensical hope. But then of
course, the maids firm steps went to the door as ever and opened it.
Gregor only needed to hear the visitors first words of greeting and he
knew who it wasthe chief clerk himself. Why did Gregor have to be the
only one condemned to work for a company where they immediately became
highly suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? Were all employees,
every one of them, louts, was there not one of them who was faithful
and devoted who would go so mad with pangs of conscience that he
couldnt get out of bed if he didnt spend at least a couple of hours
in the morning on company business? Was it really not enough to let one
of the trainees make enquiriesassuming enqurydid the chief clerk have to come himself, and did they have
to show the whole, innocent family that this was so suspicious that
only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the wisdom to investigate
it? And more because these thoughts had made him upset than through any
proper decision, he swang himself with all his force out of the bed.
There was a loud thump, but it wasnt really a loud noise. His fall was
softened a little by the carpet, and Gregors back was also more
elastic than he had thought, which made the sound muffled and not too
noticeable. He had not held his head carefully enough, though, and hit
it as he fell; annoyed and in pain, he turned it and rubbed it against
the carpet.

Somethings fallen down in there, said the chief clerk in the room on
the left. Gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort that
had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk too; you
had to concede that it was possible. But as if in gruff reply to this
question, the chief clerks firm footsteps in his highly polished boots
could now be heard in the adjoining room. From the room on his right,
Gregors sister whispered to him to let him know: Gregor, the chief
clerk is aid Gregor to himself; but without
daring to raise his voice loud enough for his sister to hear him.

Gregor, said his father now from the room to his left, the chief
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didnt leave on the
early train. We dont know what to say to him. And anyway, he wants to
speak to you personally. So please open up this door. Im sure hell be
good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room. Then the chief
clerk called Good morning, Mr. Samsa. He isnt well, said his
mother to the chief clerk, while his father continued to speak through
the door. He isnt well, please believe me. Why else would Gregor have
missed a train! The lad only ever thinks about the business. It nearly
makes me cross the way he never goes out in the evenings; hes been in
town for a week now but stayed home every evening. He sits with us in
the kitchen and just reads the paper or studies train timetables. His
idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw. Hes made a little
frame, for instance, it only took him two or three evenings, youll be
amazed how nice it is; its hanging up in his room; youll see it as
soon as Gregor opens the door. Anyway, Im glad youre here; wee to get Gregor to open the door by ourselves;
hes so stubborn; and Im sure he isnt well, he said this morning that
he is, but he isnt. Ill be there in a moment, said Gregor slowly
and thoughtfully, but without moving so that he would not miss any word
of the conversation. Well I cant think of any other way of explaining
it, Mrs. Samsa, said the chief clerk, I hope its nothing serious.
But on the other hand, I must say that if we people in commerce ever
become slightly unwell then, fortunately or unfortunately as you like,
we simply have to overcome it because of business considerations. Can
the chief clerk come in to see you now then?, asked his father
impatiently, knocking at the door again. No, said Gregor. In the room
on his right there followed a painful silence; in the room on his left
his sister began to cry.

So why did his sister not go and join the others? She had probably only
just got up and had not even begun to get dressed. And why was she
crying? Was it because he had not got up, and had not let the chief
clerk in, because he was in danger of losing his job and if that
happened his boss would once more pursue their parents with the same
demands as before? Thy about things like that
yet. Gregor was still there and had not the slightest intention of
abandoning his family. For the time being he just lay there on the
carpet, and no-one who knew the condition he was in would seriously
have expected him to let the chief clerk in. It was only a minor
discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be found for it later
on, it was not something for which Gregor could be sacked on the spot.
And it seemed to Gregor much more sensible to leave him now in peace
instead of disturbing him with talking at him and crying. But the
others didnt know what was happening, they were worried, that would
excuse their behaviour.

The chief clerk now raised his voice, Mr. Samsa, he called to him,
what is wrong? You barricade yourself in your room, give us no more
than yes or no for an answer, you are causing serious and unnecessary
concern to your parents and you failand I mention this just by the
wayyou fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite
unheard of. Im speaking here on behalf of your parents and of your
employer, and really must request a clear and immediate explanation. I
am astonished, quite astonished. I thought I knew you as a caland now you suddenly seem to be showing off with
peculiar whims. This morning, your employer did suggest a possible
reason for your failure to appear, its trueit had to do with the
money that was recently entrusted to youbut I came near to giving him
my word of honour that that could not be the right explanation. But now
that I see your incomprehensible stubbornness I no longer feel any wish
whatsoever to intercede on your behalf. And nor is your position all
that secure. I had originally intended to say all this to you in
private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good
reason I dont see why your parents should not also learn of it. Your
turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; I grant you that its
not the time of year to do especially good business, we recognise that;
but there simply is no time of year to do no business at all, Mr.
Samsa, we cannot allow there to be.

But Sir, called Gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in the
excitement, Ill open up immediately, just a moment. Im slightly
unwell, an attack of dizziness, I havent been able to get up. Im
still in bed now. Im quite fresh again now, though. Im just getting
out of bed. Just a m not quite as easy as Id
thought. Im quite alright now, though. Its shocking, what can
suddenly happen to a person! I was quite alright last night, my parents
know about it, perhaps better than me, I had a small symptom of it last
night already. They must have noticed it. I dont know why I didnt let
you know at work! But you always think you can get over an illness
without staying at home. Please, dont make my parents suffer! Theres
no basis for any of the accusations youre making; nobodys ever said a
word to me about any of these things. Maybe you havent read the latest
contracts I sent in. Ill set off with the eight oclock train, as
well, these few hours of rest have given me strength. You dont need to
wait, sir; Ill be in the office soon after you, and please be so good
as to tell that to the boss and recommend me to him!

And while Gregor gushed out these words, hardly knowing what he was
saying, he made his way over to the chest of drawersthis was easily
done, probably because of the practise he had already had in bedwhere
he now tried to get himself upright. He really did want to open the
door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief
clerk; thensistent, and he was curious to learn
what they would say when they caught sight of him. If they were shocked
then it would no longer be Gregors responsibility and he could rest.
If, however, they took everything calmly he would still have no reason
to be upset, and if he hurried he really could be at the station for
eight oclock. The first few times he tried to climb up on the smooth
chest of drawers he just slid down again, but he finally gave himself
one last swing and stood there upright; the lower part of his body was
in serious pain but he no longer gave any attention to it. Now he let
himself fall against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the
edges of it with his little legs. By now he had also calmed down, and
kept quiet so that he could listen to what the chief clerk was saying.

Did you understand a word of all that? the chief clerk asked his
parents, surely hes not trying to make fools of us. Oh, God!
called his mother, who was already in tears, he could be seriously ill
and were making him suffer. Grete! Grete! she then cried. Mother?
his sister called from the other side. They communicated across
Gregors room. Youll have to go for the doctor straig Quick, get the doctor. Did you hear the way Gregor spoke just
now? That was the voice of an animal, said the chief clerk, with a
calmness that was in contrast with his mothers screams. Anna! Anna!
his father called into the kitchen through the entrance hall, clapping
his hands, get a locksmith here, now! And the two girls, their skirts
swishing, immediately ran out through the hall, wrenching open the
front door of the flat as they went. How had his sister managed to get
dressed so quickly? There was no sound of the door banging shut again;
they must have left it open; people often do in homes where something
awful has happened.

Gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer. So they couldnt
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to
him, clearer than beforeperhaps his ears had become used to the sound.
They had realised, though, that there was something wrong with him, and
were ready to help. The first response to his situation had been
confident and wise, and that made him feel better. He felt that he had
been drawn back in among people, and from the doctor and the locksmith
he expected great and surprising achievementsalthough he did not
really distingu